{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Design and Architecture of Turing Test and CAPTCHA\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 1. Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 With the growth of Artificial Intelligence and internet systems, it has become important to tell the difference between humans and computers. Two methods that are commonly used for this purpose are the 
\f0\b Turing Test
\f1\b0  and 
\f0\b CAPTCHA
\f1\b0 .\
In simple terms, the Turing Test checks whether a machine can behave like a human during a conversation. CAPTCHA, on the other hand, is mainly used on websites to make sure the user is a real person and not a bot.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 2. Turing Test System\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Objective\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The goal of the Turing Test system is to check if a computer program can act like a human in a conversation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Architecture\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The system can be designed with a few main parts:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 User Interface
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 This is where the judge communicates with the participants through text.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Conversation Manager
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 It sends messages between the judge and the participants while keeping their identities hidden.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 AI Engine
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 This part generates responses using an AI chatbot.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Session Controller
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 It manages the conversation session and controls things like time and message flow.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Evaluation Module
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 After the conversation, the judge decides which participant is the machine.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Database
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Stores the chat history and the results of the test.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Working\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 First, a session is started by the system. The judge asks questions to both participants. One participant is a human and the other is an AI program. Both respond to the judge\'92s questions. After the conversation ends, the judge tries to guess which one is the machine. The system then records the result.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 3. CAPTCHA System\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Objective\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The main purpose of CAPTCHA is to check whether the user accessing a website is a human or an automated bot.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Architecture\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The CAPTCHA system includes the following components:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Client Interface
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Shows the CAPTCHA challenge to the user.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CAPTCHA Generator
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Creates challenges such as distorted text, images, or puzzles.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Validation Engine
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Checks if the user\'92s answer is correct.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Risk Analysis Module
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 In some systems, user behavior like mouse movement or typing speed can also be analyzed.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Database
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Stores CAPTCHA data and correct answers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Working\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 When a user opens a website, the server generates a CAPTCHA challenge. The user must solve it and submit the answer. The system checks the response. If the answer is correct, the user is allowed to continue. If it is wrong, another challenge may be shown.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 4. Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Both the Turing Test and CAPTCHA are used to differentiate between humans and machines. The Turing Test is mainly used to evaluate machine intelligence, while CAPTCHA helps protect websites from bots. Designing these systems with proper architecture makes them more effective and secure.}